Heteroatoms in the area of the side chain (Chapters 3.4 and 3.5)

	With substances of type 16, depending on the aryl and N substitution, one arrives at antihypertensive agents (Chapter 3.4) of the ß-blocker type.



	The hetero atom, as a hydroxyl group on the side chain, is a typical feature of 
ephedrine (2), which occurs in ephedra species and is an orally active, indirect 
sympathomimetic. Analogous compounds therefore usually have similar blood pressure-increasing,
heart-stimulating, bronchodilator and appetite-suppressing effects. Although ephedrine 
(2) mainly acts indirectly as a norepinephrine releaser and has only a minor effect on 
the adrenergic receptors themselves, it was found that the ß-hydroxy group is also a 
decisive factor for the binding to adrenergic receptors. Many direct sympathomimetics 
(receptor ligands and not releasers) have been developed that are still of great importance as 
bronchodilators in asthma or as decongestants of the nasal mucous membranes. The combination 
of both structural features, the phenoxyalkylamine structure 16 and the aminoethanol structure 
of the sympathomimetics, finally resulted in the aryloxypropanolamine structure, which is now 
regarded as the standard scaffold for B-blockers (see also Section 6.1.2).

	If the ß-HO group is oxidized to the ketone, stimulants that act as transporter inhibitors 
are also obtained, especially those with an extended α-alkyl chain (cf. 22). The simplest 
amphetamine analog is the oxidized form of pseudonorephedrine ((+) - cathine; 17) and is called 
cathinone (18). Like (+)-cathine (17), the (-)-S enantiomer occurs naturally in Catha edulis, 
which is native to Ethiopia, Kenya and Arabia. Its leaves were and are still chewed as a stimulant, 
but ritual uses are also widespread.
	The methyl analog of cathinone (18) is called methcathinone (19; = oxidized form of ephedrine).
As far as we know today, methcathinone (19) is a purely synthetic product that is easily produced from 
the natural substance ephedrine (2). In contrast to the ephedrine-like substances, they show values 
for the release of norepinephrine and dopamine that are comparable to those of amphetamine (3).
