A total of around 500 substances were collected and described here. The abundance of connections and structural diversity make it extremely difficult to identify an overarching structure-activity relationship (SAR). Very different biological targets can be involved, so that a similar pharmacological effect can be achieved with significantly different chemical structures. Conversely, the smallest structural variations can produce different effects. Therefore, in this introduction, several chapters are merged so that six groups are presented. A graphical representation of the SAR was dispensed with because the findings were too complex, overlapping and, in some cases, subject to exceptions.


Substitution on nitrogen (Chapters 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3)

N-alkylation (Chapter 3.1): Historically, N-methylamphetamine, better known as methamphetamine (MA; 1), is one of the first synthetically produced phenylalkylamines. Even if the Japanese professor Nagai did not know the chemical structure of his methamphetamine (1) made from ephedrine (2) in 1893, the foundation for an active substance was already laid back then, which would gain in importance in the following century. It was not until around 20 years later that further investigations were carried out on the natural substance ephedrine (2; see Chapter 3.5) by the German chemist Schmidt, in which, among other things, he also produced methamphetamine (1) - purely for the purpose of structural evidence.



The further history of methamphetamine (1) runs to a certain extent parallel to the emergence of amphetamine (3; see Chapter 2). After the extraordinary properties of amphetamine (3) had become known and could be marketed at the beginning of the 1930s, it made sense to test the structurally closely related methamphetamine (1) for its pharmacological effects and to market it - with good results. This took place on several fronts, namely on those that were to become part of World War II a few years later (Japan, Germany and America). The war gave methamphetamine (1) widespread popularity as it increased toughness and stamina. In the post-war period methamphetamine (1) became widely used as an active pharmaceutical ingredient (especially to combat obesity and depression), similar to amphetamine, but was then indicated because of increasing and massive abuse. The subsequent withdrawal from the market did not affect the spread and illegal consumption. The epidemic spread around the world continues unabated, and it is estimated that around 15 million people worldwide use methamphetamine (1) today. The annual illegal production is estimated at 300 tons. The health and social consequences can be extreme (see Chapter 3.1.1).
