39 had a muscarinic and nicotinic effect and was found to be a substance 
with muscle relaxant properties [29]. This prompted Graham and James to use 
substances 39 and 40, as well as an extensive series of analogues to investigate [30, 31]. 
Some compounds showed an antagonizing effect on epinephrine, norepinephrine, histamine and
Serotonin. The derivative (41) was ineffective in this regard, but the authors mentioned
a strong local anesthetic effect.



The fact that the introduction of electron-withdrawing groups in the side chain has a 
significant influence on the activity of phenylalkylamines was also demonstrated with 
the compound 1-Cyanophenethylamine (42) is confirmed [32]. The mice treated with 42 
showed no changes in locomotion up to 200 μM / kg (for comparison: amphetamine shows a very 
strong increase in locomotion even at doses of 10 μM / kg). In contrast to 
1-ethylphenethylamine (43, see also Chapter 3.6), which acts as a MAO inhibitor, 42 also 
did not reveal any potentiation of the activity of 2-phenethylamine (stimulation of 
locomotor activity). Furthermore, 42 showed a very small influence on the blood pressure 
of cats. The calculated pKa values show that 42 has lost its basicity (5.2) and can 
therefore no longer interact with a target in protonated form. Compared to amphetamine (9.5),
compound 43 has also lost its basicity, but with a pKa value of 7.6 it is still about 
50% in protonated form in the body.


The early studies on the metabolites of psychotomimetic phenylalkylamines led to the 
assumption that active metabolites could be responsible for the effects of such substances.
After administration of mescaline (44), rabbits excreted the metabolite 45 in significant 
amounts (humans, however, only in traces, see Section 8.4.1.2). When rabbits were injected with 45,
a “mescaline-like” effect developed from the outside (summarized in [33]). The idea arose 
that with other phenylalkylamines, these metabolites may also have an effect and are even
the active metabolites. For this reason, compounds 46 and 47, among others, were prepared
and investigated as amphetamine analogues [33]. When administered to mice, it was found
that these compounds only cause ataxia and had a dampening effect; hyperactivity was not 
observed. By later
