(protonated), but the difluoro-amine 36 is almost uncharged. Administration to 
test animals showed 35 a body distribution almost identical to that of amphetamine,
and 36 was found mainly in fat. This correlates with the properties that are 
assumed from the pKₐ values. 4-Substituted analogues are described in Section 6.3.8.

Dubin et al. compared the (+) - enantiomer of 2-amino-3-fluoro-1-phenylpropane (37)
with the more potent (+) - amphetamine with regard to the effects on locomotion
and exploratory activity in mice [26]. Both (+) - amphetamine and (+) - 37 were 
able to reduce the urge to spontaneously explore the environment, although this 
was more pronounced in (+) - 37. Both substances also increased the locomotor 
activity. However, (+) - 37 caused sedative effects after one hour, while the mice
that received (+) - amphetamine were still stimulated. This very unusual
pharmacological profile of 37 could indicate active metabolites.




The ß-halogenated compounds of type 38 (X = Br, Cl, I) are highly reactive and most
likely unstable benzyl halides. They were discussed by Rege (et al.) As possible
contaminants in illegally produced methamphetamine samples [27]. In particular, the
(-)- enantiomer with X = Cl (“chlorephedrine”) has been found several times. It was
shown to be an irreversible inhibitor of the isoenzyme CYP2D6 and could be a toxic
compound in general. Benzyl halides are considered toxic compounds because they are
very easy to alkylate. Often the readily available (+)- pseudoephedrine (1c) serves
as a precursor (precursor chemical) for the synthesis of methamphetamine. This is 
then converted into chlorephedrine, for example in a Sₙi reaction with thionyl chloride
or phosphorus pentabromide, and reduced to methamphetamine with hydrogen. The use
of hydriodic acid and red phosphorus is also common. The haloephedrines 38 can 
thereby arise to different extents. Only the stereoisomers 1a and 1c provide the
centrally active S-methamphetamine. The stereoisomers 1b and 1d provide the almost
ineffective R-methamphetamine (see chapter 3.1.1.1 for sure). However, since only
1a and 1c occur naturally, the use of 1b and 1d should generally be very low.

Despite the potentially high chemical reactivity, Hunt was the first to report the
antiepinephrine activity of N, N-dimethyl-2-chlorophenethylamine (39) [28]. 39 also
showed
