p641
8. Trisubstituted Phenylalkylamines

In addition, the two MeO-groups that have this directing effect also lead to the most potent active substances.

tmas.png

When it was known that within the trimethoxyamphetamines, 2,4,5-trimethoxyamphetamine (TMA-2; 5) was the most potent compound, one MeO to one EtO group was homologised from this compound and it was recognised that this modification of the 4-substituent is the only one that makes the substance even more potent in humans (see also chapter 8.5.4). From then on, driven in part by the search for even more potent compounds, hundreds of new trisubstituted phenylalkylamines were prepared and many of them tested by volunteers.

As can be seen in Fig. 1, within the 2,4,5-series most compounds were investigated, followed by the 3,4,5- and 2,4,6- series. Reasons for this prominence of the 2,4,5 series (Chapter 8.5) are the previously mentioned simple chemistry and the fact that this class harbours the most potent derivatives. Classic representatives of the 2,4,5-series, which is about 400 derivatives strong, are the psychedelic DOM (also known as STP; 10), which was popular in the 1970s, the psychedelic DOB (11), which was often used in radioligand experiments, and the derivatives 2C-B (12) or 2C-T-2 (13), which were later partly sold in so-called smartshops. Representatives of the 2,4,5-series have generated an enormous amount of data from which knowledge about the interaction of trisubstituted psychedelic phenylalkylamines with the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor (and the 5-HT2C receptor) has been gained (see Chapter 8.5.1). The agonistic interaction with this receptor subtype is held responsible as the primary mode of action of these substances. It should not be forgotten that the phenylalkylamines do not interact selectively with the 5-HT2 receptors, as has been proclaimed in many places; in addition to the serotonin system, there are a large number of other receptor systems with which these molecules interact [7]. Not only the substituents were varied, but also conformational restriction of the side chain or MeO groups led to many new substances that contributed to the knowledge of the binding orientation at the receptor (see Chapter 8.5.27).
