Changes in the structure of the reuptake mechanisms are responsible [1]. 
Chronic methamphetamine consumption changes the structure of the brain, as 
demonstrated by imaging studies [23]. These studies revealed significant 
deviations in the regions responsible for emotions and memory in the brain 
of methamphetamine addicts. In certain areas of the brain, some of these 
defects appear to be reversible; these regions showed regeneration after 
two years of methamphetamine abstinence [23]. This went hand in hand with 
the better performance in specific memory tests. Within the same period, 
however, other parts of the brain had not recovered, which indicates a 
long-lasting change / destruction of certain regions [23]. Even after 
three years of methamphetamine abstinence, decreased levels of striatal 
DA transporters were found in humans. It's more detailed documents that 
methamphetamine (2) causes a long-lasting reduction in DA and its metabolites 
in animal experiments (rodents and non-human primates) [25].
    All of these studies, often very detailed and on the complex mechanisms 
of action, lead to the conclusion that it is toxic at the neuronal level. 
The interested reader is referred to [1, 25, 26].

    Methamphetamine (2) penetrates the nerve cell and displaces monoamines there; 
this not only increases the concentration inside the cell, but also in the 
synaptic gap. The neurotoxicity of methamphetamine seems to be dependent 
on these two increases in concentration [27]. Because methamphetamine (2) 
excessively increases the dopamine concentration, dopamine quinones and 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) are formed [25]. In addition, the extracellular 
glutamate levels are increased, which leads to an intracellular increase in 
the calcium concentration and in turn leads to the activation of NO synthase (NOS). 
This NOS now controls the formation of reactive nitrogen compounds (RNS). 
As the name suggests, these compounds (ROS and RNS) are highly reactive and 
can not only damage proteins, lipids and DNA in their environment, but also 
directly influence the energy production of the cell by inhibiting the mitochondria. 
Together with other cascading actions not described in detail here, important proteins 
can no longer be synthesized, such as the essential vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT-2). 
This oxidative stress can lead to an altered permeability of the blood-brain barrier. 
This can possibly lead to an undesirable interaction with antipsychotic drugs that 
are used in methamphetamine psychosis [25]. It becomes intuitively clear how 
sensitively such cascade-like mechanisms are coordinated with one another. 
By changing this delicate balance, the damage can occur in all its dimensions.

Pulmonary Artery Hypertension (PAH)

As with fenfluramine and phentermine, consuming methamphetamine (2) greatly 
increases the risk of developing pulmonary hypertension [28]. In a study 
with 340 participants who were diagnosed with idiopathic 
pulmonary artery hypertension (PAH) (due to no externally known cause), 
29% had a history of stimulants (amphetamine, methamphetamine (2) or cocaine),
