p666
8.2. 2,3,5-Trisubstituted phenylalkylamines

Based on the available facts, it may be assumed that moving the 4-substituent to the 3-position of psychedelics leads to non-active compounds (Fig. 1). One could argue that the substituent in the 3-position does not allow a favourable conformation of the 2-MeO group. For optimal interaction with the 5-HT2A receptor, the MeO groups of psychedelic 2,4,5-trisubstituted phenylalkylamines (8) lie in a plane with the benzene ring, as shown in Fig. 2, A, which was confirmed by conformationally restricted analogues (see Chapters 7.3.3.1 and 8.5.27.2).
If the 4-substituent is now shifted to the 3-position, a repulsion of the two substituents in the 2- and 3-positions is to be expected, and the 2-MeO substituent is rotated at least somewhat out of plane, possibly only allowing for a weaker interaction with the receptor (Fig. 2, B).
However, this repulsion hypothesis is contradicted by the following relationship: the introduction of an additional substituent into the 3-position of 2,4,5-trisubstituted psychedelic phenylalkylamines increases the duration of action, in some cases massively (Fig. 2, C. see also chapter 9.1). In addition, in contrast to other 2C/3C pairs, the tetrasubstituted phenethylamines (2C derivatives) show approximately the same dosage and sometimes even longer duration of action in humans than their phenylisopropylamine analogues (3C derivatives). The substances become more lipophilic and possibly the additional substituent attenuates the metabolism (see chapter 9.1).

The reasons for the ineffectiveness of the 2,3,5-trisubstituted phenylalkylamines (12) could rather be that the 4-substituent shifted into the 3-position can no longer interact with the hydrophobic pocket of the 5-HT2A receptor. With an appropriately large, lipophilic substituent (e.g. 3-phenylpropyl; substance 13), this interaction would presumably be permitted again. However, it may be assumed that the functionality switches towards antagonist and that the two MeO groups are then no longer necessary for binding to the receptor (substance 14; see also substance 52 in chapter 7.2.1, or substance 60 in chapter 7.3.4).

2meo_oop.png
