p644
8. Trisubstituted Phenylalkylamines

isomescaline.png
Isomescaline

The 2,3,5- and 2,3,6-series are synthetically difficult to access. In addition, the few existing representatives only indicate very weak effects (see Chapters 8.2 and 8.3). The existing biological results provided little incentive for further investigations.

The early findings that variously substituted phenethylamines are potentially psychoactive compounds probably led to the fact that practically all studies on the trisubstituted phenylalkylamines were carried out on their psychic effects. Therefore, nearly all results found for the trisubstituted phenylalkylamines are limited to the pharmacological interactions underlying the psychedelic action of these phenylalkylamines. At the same time, there are an enormous number of aspects that cannot be quantified: Since psychedelics can have an existential impact on the human psyche in all its complexity and their effects are accompanied by altered self-perception, different thought patterns and often strongly altered sensory perceptions, it is unfortunately impossible to quantify the separate and individual impressions. Although some substances show relatively typical properties in different individuals, it is still impossible to assign the effect of a substance exactly to a neuropharmacological process. It is known that the serotonin 5-HT2A and presumably also the 5-HT2C receptors play a key role in the effect of psychoactive drugs. Research is also beginning to uncover the signal transduction pathways that follow the activation of said receptors. Animal models  that can roughly classify a test substance exist. However, those models are worlds away from being able to even remotely predict what a human will experience when ingesting said test substance by obtaining in vitro or in vivo data from experimental animals. Nevertheless, an enormous amount of knowledge has been created, and this knowledge may be one of the cornerstones for getting a little closer to the puzzle of our psyche, our thinking and our (self-)perception.

By omitting, adding, shifting or modifying atomic groups of mescaline (1), hundreds of new compounds have been created since its discovery in 1897. In the following, as well as in Fig. 6, the structure-activity relationships of the trisubstituted phenylalkylamines obtained from this research will be roughly summarised.
