were the same with 3.8% in the patients with known risk factors. After taking into 
account the different age groups and statistical data analysis (95% confidence interval, 
p <0.0001), the conclusion could be drawn that patients with idiopathic PAH used 
stimulants ten times more often than patients with other forms of pulmonary hypertension.

Methamphetamine as a worldwide drug

    Recently, the consumption of the so-called ATS (Amphetamine Type Stimulants) has stabilized, 
both on the provider and on the consumer side [29]. The steep development during the 1990s has 
leveled off at a similar (high) level since the turn of the millennium. The report of the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNDOC) attributes this stabilization to the increased 
controls of the preliminary stages as well as the various measures to contain consumption [30].
    The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that there are around 25 million regular 
amphetamine / methamphetamine users. This prevalence of around 0.6% of the world population 
of 15-64 year-olds is only exceeded by cannabis and thus takes second place among illegal drugs, 
ahead of cocaine and heroin. 15-16 million people use methamphetamine (2). Over half of 
amphetamine and methamphetamine users live in Asia [30].
    If one looks at the global seizures (2000-2005) of the ATS [30], 49% are accounted for 
by methamphetamine (2), followed by 15% by amphetamine. The rest is shared by MDMA (14%) and 
other, not precisely defined ATS (22%). Of the 17 tons of methamphetamine (2) seized by 
the authorities in 2005, 63% came from East and Southeast Asia and 36% from the United States.
    The estimated illegal production of amphetamines (amphetamine and methamphetamine (2), 
excluding MDMA) amounted to 370t in 2005, of which 290t is methamphetamine (2) and 80t is 
amphetamine, and has been similarly high in recent years [30]. Estimates come about as 
follows: 1.) Confiscation of ATS, 2.) Confiscation of preliminary stages, 3.) Estimation of 
ATS consumers. The authors describe the difficulty in giving an exact trend that results 
from the fluctuating values.
    Typically 0.1-1g per day is required, for chronic binge users it can be up to 5g. 
In order to meet this demand and to supply the consumers with methamphetamine (2), the 
market has found enough ways and means.
    Illegal “meth” is produced either in large, industrial, so-called “superlabs”, which 
can produce multikilo quantities in one production cycle, or in small methamphetamine kitchens 
that typically produce gram quantities [29, 30]. Individual large-scale plants have the capacity, 
if the starting substances are available, to synthesize several hundred kilograms per week. It is 
believed that 80% of the methamphetamine (2) consumed is produced in such “superlabs”, even though 
there are thousands of small underground laboratories in the US alone.
    Production, although widespread geographically, is concentrated in the United States, 
East and Southeast Asia, Oceania and some European countries. The authors of the report note 
that South Africa has recently become a production location [29].
    In 95 percent of the cases, methamphetamine (2) is produced in laboratories discovered 
around the world (mainly kitchen laboratories). The number of laboratories discovered was in 1990
