	N-heteroatoms (Chapter 3.3): Basically, heteroatoms and groups have 
a massive influence on the physicochemical properties of the basic nitrogen of 
phenylalkylamines. Phenelzine (11) and pheniprazine (12) are hydrazine derivatives which,
due to this chemical group, have very different pharmacological properties compared to 
their simple phenylalkylamine analogues. Pheniprazine (12) was one of the first 
commercially available monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, but was withdrawn from the 
market because of side effects. Phenelzine (11) also acts as a non-selective MAO inhibitor 
and is a drug that is still used today, for example under the name Nardil. It is 
primarily used to treat depression, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive disorder.

	N-hydroxylation maintained some of the effects of amphetamine (3) 
in experimental animals, but N-methoxylation was more likely to cause sedation (substances 13 and 19).

	Various attempts have been made to get rid of its stimulatory effects by a simple modification of 
the amine group of amphetamine (3) with the desire to maintain the anorectic properties or the activity 
profile required for the treatment of attention deficit / hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This was 
achieved with the derivative lisdexamfetamine (15; marketed as Vyvanse®). It is a prodrug for amphetamine 
and can only be misused as such with great difficulty due to the limited in vivo hydrolysis, since only 
a small amount is constantly released. In addition, it cannot be misused via any other type of 
application (e.g. cold), as the metabolism to amphetamine is very slow.




	Conclusion N-substitution: alkyl residues that exceed the size of an Me group cause 
a massive loss of effectiveness with regard to the stimulating effects of amphetamine, 
dialkylations also make these effects disappear. Exception: substances such as 
Prolintan (10). With large alkylphenyl residues, the substances become potent σ-ligands, 
while no general statements can be made for heteroatoms.
