still to a little over 500, whereby the number in 2004 reached a maximum of 18,500 (!) and for 2005, 
slightly declining, still 13,400 were counted. This corresponds to a number of 36 excavated 
laboratories worldwide - every day, 95% of them in the USA [29].

    Two synthetic routes are preferred to produce illicit methamphetamine (2). 
On the one hand the synthesis starting from 1-phenyl-2-propanone (P-2-P), which gives racemic 
methamphetamine (2) of lower potency, on the other hand the synthesis from ephedrine or 
pseudoephedrine is used. Birch reduction with liquid ammonia has been in vogue since the 
mid-1980s. To carry out this synthesis in a garage laboratory, the liquid ammonia is usually 
extracted from old refrigerators in which the ammonia was used as a coolant.
    It is obvious the danger to the producers as well as to the environment, neighborhood and bystanders. 
The chemicals in methamphetamine production are not only toxic but also highly flammable. According to 
a study from 2002, one sixth of illegal laboratories in the USA were discovered because of explosions, 
fire or the escape of toxic gases. It is estimated in the USA that for every kilo of methamphetamine (2) 
produced there is five to six kilos of chemical waste [22].

    The purity and price of methamphetamine (2) vary considerably and depend on various factors. As an 
example from the USA shows, the salary was halved after the trade in high-percentage, i.e. purer 
methamphetamine (2) was punished more severely. The prices for methamphetamine (2) range between 
20 and 120 US dollars, euros or Swiss francs per gram; Hundreds of dollars are charged for the 
same amount of the purer crystal meth. If you calculate consumption and price, a potential is achieved
which by far exceeds that of a blockbuster drug. With a consumption of 300 tons and a price of 
50 US dollars per gram, annual sales of 15 billion dollars are achieved considerable sum.

    Last but not least, the meticulous work of Rasmussen is highly recommended as it provides a 
lot of historical information about amphetamine and methamphetamine [51]. The feature film 
Spun (director: Jonas Akerlund, 2004) deals with the production of "meth" in kitchen laboratories 
as well as the consumption, addiction problems and social behavior of addicts in a realistic manner 
and can definitely be recommended to interested readers. The American television series 
Breaking Bad (director: Vince Gilligan, since 2007) should also be referred to, which occasionally 
sheds light on meth production and the scene.

3.1.1.2. More N-alkylamphetamines

    During the first investigations of amphetamine (1) at the beginning of the 1930s, 
the occasionally observed "strange" [31] and by some people very much appreciated side effects 
on well-being were at least controversial in the scientific reports. The reasons for this are, 
among other things, that the mention of the stimulating properties was deliberately omitted in 
the first publications
